>> Nina Zakharenko: Going back to our
little cheat sheet here, lists, part one.
You use lists for
storing similar items, generally,
in cases where items need to be added or
removed.
You can create them with square brackets,
or by calling the list type.
To search for items in the list,
you call my_list.index with
the item that you're searching for.
Or you can ask, is this item in my list,
with the in keyword.
The search speed is slow, right, for a
large list, every item has to be checked.
So if the value that you're looking for
is all the way at the end,
you have to check all of those values.
Some common methods on list are calling
len, on the list to find out the length,
calling append with an item,
to add an item.
Using insert, with an index and
an item to insert in the middle of a list,
based on the index.
And using pop(), with or without
the optional argument, to remove items.
Is the order of a list preserved,
yes, right, and
we know that because we can access
the items in the list by index.
We'll talk about mutability later,
but mutability is,
can the contents of this item
be changed after it is declared?
Is the list mutable, yes,
is it possible to sort it in place,
yep, we can call my_list.sort() or
my_list.reverse(), okay?
I know, it's a lot to think about,
right, all-new data structure,
can contain other data structures.
The thing about lists is,
they can contain any types, right?
They can contain strings, numbers,
they can also contain other
advanced container types, right?
You can easily have a list of lists,
how to access that is a little
bit out of scope for this class.
But if you decide you haven't
had enough Python today, and
you want some homework after class,
it's a fun thing to figure out.
>> Student: But the rule is, in the list,
all the members have to be the same.
>> Nina Zakharenko: No, nope.
>> Student: They don't,
I thought that was a, okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: They tend to be
similar items, just kind of in practice,
right, just how you would use them,
but that's a very good question.
Okay, so someone asked,
do items in the list have to be
the same type, and the answer is no.
So if I assign this wacky list
that I made to a variable,
what is the value at position 0?
>> Class: 1.
>> Nina Zakharenko: 1, and
at position 2, Nina, yeah.
So totally valid in Python,
just generally not something you'd see,
more out of convention than possibility,
if that makes sense.
>> Student2: And
the list knows the type, right?
So the True's a Boolean, the None's
a None type, cuz it's not a string,
cuz there's no quotes around it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Right,
that's a complicated question, and
kind of out of the scope of this class.
But yeah, the list knows the variables
that has in them, right, or
rather the values of the variables, right?